code-review: update requirements (#38)
kottans/documentation: docs/doc/code-review.md

title: How to Conduct A Helpful Code Review
---

As a reviewer consider the following guidelines:

- [How to Do Code Reviews Like a Human (Part One)](https://mtlynch.io/human-code-reviews-1/) /

>   [Code review по-человечески (часть 1)](https://habr.com/en/post/340550/)

Reviewer: Maybe remove `habr` links? Russian site, doesn't work without VPN.

Author: Makes sense as we have links to original posts anyway and code reviewers are likely have sufficient command of English.
Cannot remember who suggested adding translations and why. Would expect yet another opinion on this matter.

- [How to Do Code Reviews Like a Human (Part Two)](https://mtlynch.io/human-code-reviews-2/) /
  [Code review по-человечески (часть 2)](https://habr.com/ru/post/342244/)
- [PR Code Review Phrase Book](https://gist.github.com/OleksiyRudenko/e6f573d7aca2cc854ccce6087cfe7138)

## General requirements

> The code is written for other people to read and contribute to comfortably.

Reviewer: `and to contribute comfortably`?

> The code is written for other people to read and contribute to comfortably.

Author: Suggesting to add a preposition and an excplicit reference to the object of contribution, for the sake of clarity.
```suggestion
The code is written for other people to read and to contribute to the code comfortably.
```

### Code formatting

- `console.log` statements should not be left in final version of the code, unless it's part of the functionality
- Fix irregular indentations and remove redundant empty lines.
- Put an empty line at the end of every file. [Reason](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/729692/why-should-text-files-end-with-a-newline?noredirect=1&lq=1). Tune your code editor's settings so it does this for you.

> - Unnecessary comments should be avoided. Find a way to express the intent through descriptive variable names or by abstracting part of the code into properly named function. Comments, if there are any, should explain "why", not "what".

Author: ```suggestion
- Unnecessary comments should be avoided. Find a way to express the intent through descriptive variable names or by abstracting parts of the code into properly named functions. Comments, if there are any, should explain "why", not "what".
```

### Code formatting

- `console.log` statements should not be left in final version of the code, unless it's part of the functionality
- Fix irregular indentations and remove redundant empty lines.
- Put an empty line at the end of every file. [Reason](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/729692/why-should-text-files-end-with-a-newline?noredirect=1&lq=1). Tune your code editor's settings so it does this for you.

> - Unnecessary comments should be avoided. Find a way to express the intent through expressive variable names or by abstracting part of the code into properly named function. Comments, if there are any, should explain "why", not "what".

Reviewer: `express` through `expressive`. Maybe `express the intent through descriptive variable names` is better?

Reviewer: `into a properly named function` or `into properly named functions`

Author: I like `descriptive` more as it more specific than `proper`.

> - Unnecessary comments should be avoided. Find a way to express the intent through expressive variable names or by abstracting part of the code into properly named function. Comments, if there are any, should explain "why", not "what".

Author: ```suggestion
- Unnecessary comments should be avoided. Find a way to express the intent through descriptive variable names or by abstracting part of the code into properly named function. Comments, if there are any, should explain "why", not "what".
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
_(although some conventional shorthands are OK; e.g. `i`, `j` to denote array indexes, `x`, `y` to denote coordinates and other similar cases)_
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
_(although some conventional shorthands are OK; e.g. `i` to when looping through array by index, `x`/`y` to denote coordinates and other similar cases)_
```

1. Minimal requirements to meet:
   1. Implement base classes for child classes to inherit shared properties from.
   1. Employ default parameters' values where appropriate
   1. Each species is represented with its own class
   1. There is no need to specify species at instantiation yet species are printed
   1. A class constructor's signature should be very specific as to what parameters they expect to receive 
   1. Classes for species that do not have hands by natural design
      do not consequently have `hands` or any equivalent property
   1. All inhabitants are stored in a container (array or object - decide which is better for further manipulations)
   1. [OOP, SOLID and DRY](https://github.com/OleksiyRudenko/a-tiny-JS-world/blob/master/README.md#learn-on-your-own)
      principles are intensively employed
1. Optional level up (not required to implement):
   1. Friends list is a list of objects refs to other inhabitants rather than just names (strings)
   1. Cat-woman class is built employing composition rather
      than inheritance only
1. Bonus:
   1. `toString` magic method; when implemented `print(inhabitant)`
      does the job as `.toString` is called implicitly

>    1. `this.constructor.name`; when used properly there is no need to specify `species` property explicitly

Author: ```suggestion
   1. when `this.constructor.name` is used properly there is no need to specify `species` property explicitly
```

2. This is an imperative way, you need to write declarative and describe what your code does, not how. This will make your code shorter and easier to maintain.
3. Reuse of code. Saying, you will need to rotate some other stuff - you will add a similar line to another part of an application. Which is not right because of DRY.

> So, replace such parts with css classes. You can use `classList` to manipulate them.

Reviewer: `CSS`, uppercase

> So, replace such parts with css classes. You can use `classList` to manipulate them.

Author: ```suggestion
So, replace such parts with CSS classes. You can use `classList` to manipulate them.
```

Separation of responsibility: JS is for logic, CSS - for styling.

**Handling changes**

`keyUp` handles not all input types (try pasting text via context menu instead of typing)

### A Tiny JS World -- (pre-OOP)

_Relates to [Building a Tiny JS World](https://github.com/kottans/frontend/blob/master/tasks/js-pre-oop.md) task._

1. Men and women belong to the same biological species.
1. `prototype`-based or ES2015/ES6 `class` syntax aren't used.

> 1. Code is [DRY](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself), which means that whenever you see a pattern in your code those should be eliminated as much as possible. Examples:

Reviewer: `a pattern` - `it should be eliminated`

> 1. Code is [DRY](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself), which means that whenever you see a pattern in your code those should be eliminated as much as possible. Examples:

Author: ```suggestion
1. Code is [DRY](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself), which means that whenever you see a pattern in your code it should be eliminated. Examples:
```

>    1. `print(dog); print(cat); etc ... ` should be refactored employing `Array.forEach` as the least

Reviewer: No dot in the end.

>    1. `print(dog); print(cat); etc ... ` should be refactored employing `Array.forEach` as the least

Author: ```suggestion
   1. `print(dog); print(cat); etc ... ` should be refactored employing `Array.forEach` as the least.
```

   1. `` `${obj.legs}; ${obj.name}; etc...` `` (yes, strings are also code) must be refactored employing appropriate `Array` methods
1. `Object` methods like `keys`, `values`, `entries` shouldn't be used when a particular order is required as these do not guarantee any particular order of keys/values. Same refers to `for...of` and `for...in` when applied to objects.
   Hint: List explicitly the properties used to form an object presentation string.

### OO JS (Frogger)

Relates to
[Object-Oriented JavaScript](https://github.com/kottans/frontend/blob/master/tasks/js-oop.md) task.

A. Minimal requirements to meet:
1. employ ES6 features like `const`, `let` etc. (with exclusion of ES6 `class` syntax)
1. the code is very [DRY](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself)

> 1. Requirements re **Constants**:

Reviewer: `are`?

   1. all numbers like block dimensions, initial locations are defined as constants
   1. every number that has a semantic purpose (like those listed above) should be defined as constants; think of how your code **reads** - the closer to plain English the better
   1. there are core constants and derived (calculated) constants
      (e.g. `const FIELD_WIDTH = BLOCK_WIDTH * BLOCKS_NUMBER;`)
   1. arrays of constants also qualify as constants
      (e.g. `const INITIAL_POSITIONS = [1,2,3,4].map(rowNumber => rowNumber * BLOCK_HEIGHT);`)
   1. const objects help organizing and structure const data even better
      (e.g. `const PLAYER_CONF = { initialPosition: {x: 1, y: 5}, sprite: '...', ...etc... };`

> 1. Requirements re **OOP**:

Author: ```suggestion
1. Requirements regarding **OOP**:
```

>    1. OO is implemented using JS prototype chain object model (**not** ES2015/ES6 `class` syntax)

Reviewer: We have to figure out do we really need to restrict `class` usage for students, when some mentors are for it.

Author: I'd cosider "doesn't make sense" rather than "against".
Q: Why `prototype.*` is still here? A: Legacy. The exisiting codebase is all `prototype.*`. Former Udacity theoretical part was about `prototype.*` only.

The progress in standards should be accounted for. 
I'd change this for the next course iteration. This will require to rework the original project (both codebase and documentation). Also `prototype.*` allows to tweak game engine re-defining its internals in a different file (e.g. `app.js`), which is not really possible with `class` syntax. Although no one used this opportunity yet anyway.

In a nutshell, I'd postpone this change at least until current Stage 0 end. It will also need some thoughtful effort at the expense of reviews or other improvements.

   1. properties common for some classes are generalized into a base class
      (e.g. there is `Character` base class, which is extended by `Enemy` and `Player` classes)
   1. class extension is implemented using `Subclass.prototype = Object.create(Superclass.prototype)`,
      not `Subclass.prototype = new Superclass(params);`;
      [Useful resource](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Inheritance_and_the_prototype_chain)
   1. classes do not refer to any global variables, like global variable `player`, which is an instance of `Player` class
      (referring to global constants and globals provided by the gaming platform like `Resources` is OK);
      Hint: pass instance of a game object (or objects) as an argument to other game objects they need to interact with
   1. Separation of Concerns principle is followed

>       (e.g. `update` method does only rendering and

Reviewer: But `update` method shouldn't render anything. It is for update the state of the object which is then used for rendering in another method. Maybe a bad example?

>       (e.g. `update` method does only rendering and

Author: ```suggestion
      (e.g. `update` method does only character coordinates update and
```

>       doesn't **contain** any inline code to check e.g. collisions)

Author: ```suggestion
      doesn't contain any **inline** code to check e.g. collisions; calling other methods from `update` is legitimate)
```

1. Most common mistakes
  1. Make sure `target = condition ? valueWhenConditionTrue : valueWhenConditionFalse` is used instead of
     `condition ? target = valueWhenConditionTrue : target = valueWhenConditionFalse`;
     [Conditional (ternary) operator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Conditional_Operator)

### OOP Exercise

Relates to
[OOP Exercise](https://github.com/kottans/frontend/blob/master/tasks/js-post-oop.md).

1. Minimal requirements to meet:

>    1. Implement base classes the child classes inherit shared properties from

Reviewer: Better wording:
`Implement base classes for child classes to inherit shared properties from`.

>    1. Implement base classes the child classes inherit shared properties from

Author: ```suggestion
   1. Implement base classes for child classes to inherit shared properties from.
```
